As iron sharpens iron, so one person sharpens another.

You're going to pay a price for every bloody thing you do
and everything you don't do. You don't get to choose to not
pay a price. You get to choose which poison you're
going to take. That's it.

Life is suffering
Love is the desire to see unnecessary suffering ameliorated
Truth is the handmaiden of love
Dialogue is the pathway to truth
Humility is recognition of personal insufficiency and the willingness to learn
To learn is to die voluntarily and be born again, in great ways and small
So speech must be untrammeled
So that dialogue can take place
So that we can all humbly learn
So that truth can serve love
So that suffering can be ameliorated
So that we can all stumble forward to the Kingdom of God


"No tree can grow to Heaven,” adds the ever-terrifying Carl Gustav Jung,
psychoanalyst extraordinaire, “unless its roots reach down to Hell."

"Every bit of learning is a little death.
Every bit of new information challenges a previous
conception, forcing it to dissolve into chaos before
it can be reborn as something better."

Often, when people have a low opinion of their worth, or,
perhaps, they refuse responsibility for their lives, they choose a new
acquaintance, of precisely the type who proved troublesome in the past.
Such people don't believe that they deserve any better, so they don't go
looking for it. Or, perhaps, they don't want the trouble of better. Freud
thought of it as an unconscious drive to repeat horrors of the past,
sometimes, maybe, to formulate those horrors more precisely,
sometimes to attempt more active mastery and sometimes, maybe,
because no alternatives beckon. People create their worlds with tools
they have directly at hand. Faulty tools beget faulty results.
Repeated use of these faulty tools beget the same faulty results.
It's in this manner that those who fail to learn from the past doom
themselves to repeat it. It's partly fate, partly inability,  partly
... unwillingness to learn? Refusal to learn?

We must each adopt as much responsibility as possible for
individual life, society and the world. We must each tell
the truth and repair what is in disrepair and break down
and recreate what is old and outdated. It is in this manner
that we can and must reduce the suffering that poisons the
world. It’s asking a lot. It’s asking for everything.

Loneliness does not come from having no people around you,
but from being unable to communicate the things that
seem important to you.

One does not become enlightened by imagining figures of light,
but by making the darkness conscious. The latter procedure, however,
is disagreeable and therefore not popular.

My soul, where are you? Do you hear me? I speak, I call you
- are you there? I have returned, I am here again. I have shaken
the dust of all the lands from my feet, and I have come to you,
I am with you. After long years of long wandering, I have come to you again.
Should I tell you everything I have seen, experienced, and drunk in?
Or do you not want to hear about all the noise of life and the world?
But one thing you must know: the one thing I have learned is that one must live this life.
Do you still know me? How long the separation lasted! Everything has become so different.
And how did I find you? How strange my journey was!
What words should I use to tell you on what twisted paths a good star
has guided me to you? Give me your hand, my almost forgotten soul.
How warm the joy at seeing you again, you long disavowed soul. Life has led me back to you.
Let us thank the life I have lived for all the happy and all the sad hours, for every joy,
for every sadness. My soul, my journey should continue with you.
I will wander with you and ascend to my solitude.


If we feel our way into the human secrets of the sick person,
the madness also reveals its system, and we recognize in the
mental illness merely an exceptional reaction to emotional problems
which are not strange to us.


The prideful, rational mind, comfortable with its certainty,
enamoured of its own brilliance, is easily tempted to ignore error,
and to sweep dirt under the rug. Literary, existential philosophers,
beginning with Søren Kierkegaard, conceived of this mode of Being as “inauthentic.”
An inauthentic person continues to perceive and act in ways his own
experience has demonstrated false. He does not speak with his own voice.

The greatest hazard of all, losing one’s self, can occur very quietly
in the world, as if it were nothing at all. No other loss can occur
so quietly; any other loss - an arm, a leg, five dollars,
a wife, etc. - is sure to be noticed.

If I were to wish for anything, I should not wish for wealth and power,
but for the passionate sense of the potential, for the eye which, ever young and ardent,
sees the possible. Pleasure disappoints, possibility never. And what wine is so sparkling, what so fragrant,
what so intoxicating, as possibility!

To venture causes anxiety, but not to venture is to lose one's self....
And to venture in the highest is precisely to be conscious of one's self.


If there are things that upset you, chaotic, terrible, serpentine monstrous
underworld things that threaten you, the best thing to do is to open your eyes,
get your speech organized, and go out and confront the thing, and make the world
out of it.

Never cease loving a person, and never give up hope for him, for
even the prodigal son who had fallen most low, could still be saved;
the bitterest enemy and also he who was your friend could again be your
friend; love that has grown cold can kindle.

Do you not know that there comes a midnight hour when every one has to throw
off his mask? Do you believe that life will always let itself be mocked?
Do you think you can slip away a little before midnight in order to avoid this?
Or are you not terrified by it? I have seen men in real life who so long deceived
others that at last their true nature could not reveal itself;... In every man
there is something which to a certain degree prevents him from becoming perfectly
transparent to himself; and this may be the case in so high a degree, he may be
so inexplicably woven into relationships of life which extend far beyond himself
that he almost cannot reveal himself. But he who cannot reveal himself cannot love,
and he who cannot love is the most unhappy man of all.

You love the accidental. A smile from a pretty girl in an interesting situation,
a stolen glance, that is what you are hunting for, that is a motif for your aimless fantasy.
You who always pride yourself on being an observateur must, in return, put up with becoming
an object of observation. Ah, you are a strange fellow, one moment a child, the next an old man;
one moment you are thinking most earnestly about the most important scholarly problems,
how you will devote your life to them, and the next you are a lovesick fool.
But you are a long way from marriage.

Adversity draws men together and produces beauty and harmony in life's relationships,
just as the cold of winter produces ice-flowers on the window-panes,
which vanish with the warmth.

When one has once fully entered the realm of love, the world — no matter how imperfect —
becomes rich and beautiful, it consists solely of opportunities for love.

To stand up straight with your shoulders back is to accept the terrible responsibility of life,
with eyes wide open. It means deciding to voluntarily transform the chaos of potential into
the realities of habitable order. It means adopting the burden of self-conscious vulnerability,
and accepting the end of the unconscious paradise of childhood, where finitude and mortality
are only dimly comprehended. It means willingly undertaking the sacrifices necessary to generate
a productive and meaningful reality (it means acting to please God, in the ancient language).
To stand up straight with your shoulders back means building the ark that protects the world from the flood,
guiding your people through the desert after they have escaped tyranny, making your way away from comfortable
home and country, and speaking the prophetic word to those who ignore the widows and children.
It means shouldering the cross that marks the X, the place where you and Being intersect so terribly. It means casting dead,
rigid and too tyrannical order back into the chaos in which it was generated; it means withstanding the ensuing uncertainty,
and establishing, in consequence, a better, more meaningful and more productive order. So, attend carefully to your posture.
Quit drooping and hunching around. Speak your mind. Put your desires forward, as if you had a right to
them—at least the same right as others. Walk tall and gaze forthrightly ahead. Dare to be
dangerous. Encourage the serotonin to flow plentifully through the neural pathways desperate
for its calming influence. People, including yourself, will start to assume that you are.
